# FishCARD: Marine Fish 12S California Specific Reference Database for Enhanced Metabarcoding Efforts

https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.08.20.258889v1.full
Zachary Gold<sup>1</sup>, Emma Choi<sup>2</sup>, Ben Frable<sup>2</sup>, Dovi Kacev<sup>2</sup>, Ron Burton<sup>2</sup>, Kelly Goodwin<sup>3</sup>, Andrew R. Thompson<sup>4</sup>, Paul H. Barber<sup>1</sup>


<sup>1</sup>Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, UCLA, Los Angeles

<sup>2</sup>Scripps Institution of Oceanography, UCSD, La Jolla

<sup>3</sup>Ocean Chemistry and Ecosystems Division, Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, stationed at Southwest Fisheries Science Center, La Jolla, California, USA

<sup>4</sup>Southwest Fisheries Science Center, NMFS/NOAA, La Jolla




## Abstract
DNA metabarcoding is an important tool for molecular ecology. However, metabarcoding effectiveness hinges on the quality of reference databases for taxa and loci of interest. This limitation is true for metabarcoding of marine fishes in the California Current ecosystem where there is a paucity of reference 12S barcodes. Here we present FishCARD, a California Current-specific marine fish 12S-specific reference barcode database. We barcoded 612 species using the MiFish metabarcoding primers; an addition of 258 species to the 459 California Current fish species with existing 12S barcodes from GenBank. The resulting FishCARD database covers 82.7% of California Current marine fishes, and it includes virtually all fishes sampled by large marine monitoring programs such as the Partnership for Interdisciplinary Studies of Coastal Oceans and California Cooperative Oceanic Fisheries Investigation. To demonstrate the importance of complete reference databases for eDNA metabarcoding, we compared species and reads identified from three 1L seawater samples collected off Santa Cruz Island, CA using GenBank sequences with and without our generated barcodes, as well as the FishCARD database curated here. The inclusion of our generated barcodes allowed for the additional identification of 15 native taxa and 21.8% of total reads from eDNA samples. However, we found that half of all amplicon sequence variants (ASVs) generated by MiFish 12S primers were of non-vertebrate 16S origin, demonstrating a clear limitation of a widely employed fish metabarcoding primers. Despite these limitations, FishCARD provides an important genetic resource to enhance the effectiveness of marine metabarcoding efforts in the California Current ecosystem.

## Description
This page is dedicated to hosting an updated curated version of FishCARD. FishCARD is a curated Calfiornia fish specific reference database for MiFish Teleost and Elasmobranch 12S metabarcoding primer sets [Miya et al. 2015](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rsos.150088). Included on this page is 1. FishCARD reference database 2. List of California Fish Species 3. List of California Fish Species still missing 12S reference barcodes 4. [CRUX-12S reference database](https://github.com/limey-bean/CRUX_Creating-Reference-libraries-Using-eXisting-tools) 

The CRUX-12S reference database was generated using standard CRUX parameters using EMBL and NCBI GenBank sequences downloaded in October 2019. 

Efforts will be made to periodically update the FishCARD and CRUX-12S reference database ~every 6 months unless directly contacted to update sooner.
